.\" Copyright 2005, Mattia Dongili (malattia@linux.it)
.\"
.\" This file may be used subject to the terms and conditions of the
.\" GNU General Public License Version 2, or any later version
.\" at your option, as published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details."
.TH "cpufreqd-set" "1" "2.2.0" "Mattia Dongili" ""
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
cpufreqd\-set \- Issues "set" commands to cpufreqd.
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
cpufreqd\-set <command>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
cpufreqd\-set issues a command to cpufreqd and reads all the available profiles
for usage with cpufreqd\-set.  No arguments are allowed to this command.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.LP 
.B "manual"
make cpufreqd run in manual mode. This means the cpufreqd will stop polling the
system status and will allow for specific profiles to be set.

.B "dynamic"
make cpufreqd run in dynamic mode (this is the default cpufreqd operation
mode). This means that cpufreqd will poll system parameters and decide which
profile better suits the current status.

.B "number"
by passing an integer to cpufreqd-set you can set a specific profile choosing
one of the configured ones. You can use cpufreqd-get(1) to obtain available
profiles and their number.

.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Mattia Dongili <malattia@linux.it>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
cpufreqd\-get(1), cpufreqd(8), cpufreqd.conf(5)

