.\" Copyright 2002-2003, George Staikos (staikos@0wned.org)
.\"                      Mattia Dongili (dongili@supereva.it)
.\"                      Rene Rebe (rene@rocklinux.org)
.\" This file may be used subject to the terms and conditions of the
.\" GNU General Public License Version 2, or any later version
.\" at your option, as published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details."
.TH CPUFREQD 8 "25 Mar 2003" "" ""
.SH NAME
cpufreqd \- intelligently monitor and manipulate CPU frequency
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "cpufreqd [-Dhv] [-f filename] [-V verbosity]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cpufreqd
is used to monitor the status of the battery and adjust the frequency of the
CPU accordingly in order to preserve battery power while providing optimal
performance.  The behaviour of the daemon is fully configurable. Logs are reported through syslogd.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B "-D, --no-daemon"
stay in foreground (used to debug).
.TP
.B "-f filename, --file=filename"
Specify the configuration file to read.  The default is /etc/cpufreqd.conf.
.TP
.B "-h, --help"
Display command line help.
.TP
.B "-v, --version"
Display the version number of the daemon.
.TP
.B "-V, --verbosity"
verbosity level from 0 (less verbose) to 7 (most verbose). Default verbosity is 4
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGHUP
This lets 
.B cpufreqd 
perform a re-initialization.  The configuration file (default is /etc/cpufreqd.conf) will  be re-read and probes re-done.
.TP
.B SIGINT, SIGTERM
.B cpufreqd
will terminate.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
/usr/sbin/cpufreqd \-D
.SH NOTES
.TP
Some ACPI implementations are very cpu-consuming when reading the info file of system batteries. Cpufreqd implements a simple workaround that avoids reading that file except on initialization or reinitialization. This has the effect of needing to send an HUP signal if inserting a new battery, otherwise battery measurement won't be correct.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu*/cpufreq
2.6 kernel cpu frequency interface
.TP
.I /proc/cpufreq
2.4 kernel cpu frequency interface
.TP
.I /proc/apm
kernel power management interface (APM)
.TP
.I /proc/acpi
kernel power management interface (ACPI)
.TP
.I /proc/pmu
kernel power management interface (PMU)

.TP
.I /etc/cpufreqd.conf
.B cpufreqd
configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cpufreqd.conf (5), syslogd (8)
.SH BUGS
Multiple CPUs are not supported.
Battery can only be specified in percent, not in minutes remaining.
.SH AUTHOR
.TP
George Staikos <staikos@0wned.org>
.TP
Mattia Dongili <dongili@supereva.it>
.TP
Rene Rebe <rene@rocklinux.org>
