.\" Copyright 2005, Mattia Dongili (malattia@linux.it)
.\"
.\" This file may be used subject to the terms and conditions of the
.\" GNU General Public License Version 2, or any later version
.\" at your option, as published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details."
.TH "cpufreqd-get" "1" "2.2.0" "Mattia Dongili" ""

.SH "NAME"
.LP 
cpufreqd\-get \- Issues "get" commands to cpufreqd.
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
.B "cpufreqd\-get [\-l]"

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.TP
.B "\-l"
list applied Profiles for all cpus.

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
cpufreqd\-get issues a command to cpufreqd and reads the returned output.
When run without arguments it will issue a "LIST_PROFILES" command, useful
for usage with cpufreqd\-set. See the PARAMETERS above for more.

.SH "COMMANDS"
.LP 
.B "LIST_PROFILES"
.LP 
cpufreqd\-get
.nf
.ne 7
Name (#1):	On Demand High
Active on CPU#:	0, 1
Governor:	ondemand
Min freq:	1000000
Max freq:	1833000

Name (#2):	On Demand Low
Governor:	ondemand
Min freq:	1000000
Max freq:	1333000

.fi
.LP 
.B "LIST_APPLIED_PROFILES"
.LP 
cpufreqd\-get \-l
.nf
.ne 7
CPU#0: "High Speed 1" ondemand 731500\-997500
.fi

Near the name (between the parenthesis) you can find the index number to use
when setting a specific profile with cpufreqd\-set.

.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Mattia Dongili <malattia@linux.it>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
cpufreqd\-set(1), cpufreqd(8), cpufreqd.conf(5)
